Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Yen
would like to answer the following question: "Hello, Auntie. I
am a new Buddhist. Before, I used to
go to fortune tellers, but now I don't want to
anymore. However, I have
n't made up my mind; sometimes I still feel compelled to go.
I ask you to
explain so that I can let go of my attachment and stop wanting to go to fortune tellers.
Thank you, Auntie.
Now, let's put ourselves in the shoes of someone going to a fortune teller and
see what it says. It's exactly as it seems,
not wrong at all. If it says you'll fall tomorrow, you'll fall tomorrow. If it says you'll
lose money the day after tomorrow, you'll lose money the day after tomorrow.
If it says you'll be in love with three people before you get married, you'll be in love with three people before you get married. If it says your
firstborn son will be a certain kind of child, you'll be in love with three people before you get married. It's all
correct, not wrong at all. Even without a fortune teller, you'd
know that. Because it's all the same.
Without a fortune teller, you'd know you'd fall tomorrow. Without a fortune teller, you'd
know you'd be in
love with three people, you'd be in love with three people, you'd be in
love with three people before you get married. That's
also correct. Whether you go to a fortune teller or not
is just adding more worry to yourself." It does
n't explain.  What can you achieve if everything is
100% correct? That's why, in the
book "The Four Teachings of Liu Fan,"
Mencius consulted a fortune teller and saw that his whole life was perfectly accurate. He felt discouraged and said, "My
efforts in
life are so boring, I'm getting nowhere. Why bother
striving?" He
just kept going, and everything went back to how it was before, just like the
fortune teller predicted. So, if I didn't consult a fortune teller, I would
still be in love with many men, but I would
n't have to pay the fortune teller and
I wouldn't have to worry, right? If
I didn't consult a fortune teller, it would still be the same, nothing would be solved.
So, the question is,
why shouldn't you consult a fortune teller?
Because fortune telling doesn't
solve anything, you still
worry, and there's another danger:
you automatically assume things will turn out that way.
You automatically assume things will turn out
that way, there's no way to
avoid it. Therefore, we either need to know our karma
beforehand and pay the price; what can we decide if we
only know that? Or, once we have karma, we can't escape it, we ca
n't escape it.
You can escape it because the cause you
sow is the effect you reap; you can't escape it. The
only and most effective way
is to return to
Buddhism, believe in karma, and transform your thoughts, words, and actions in every moment. Then you will transform your karma yourself. If, after all that effort, something still happens, then it's called unchangeable karma. Therefore, a Buddhist disciple doesn't go to fortune tellers because they do
n't have that preconceived notion
in their head. That's
why fortune telling doesn't
solve anything; it only leads
to suffering. Fortune telling is just a waste of
money. And then,
after fortune telling, you might even fall into the
path of wrong views.  This kind of ritual involves
killing living beings, and then there's the offerings of paper money and other
miscellaneous rituals, which is also a form of erroneous belief and adds to one's negative karma.
Therefore, if you
want to stop fortune telling, you must
understand the harmful effects of fortune telling.
[music]
h